Title: Kickstarter: mysql-cli
Date: 2015-4-5
Category: Blog
Tags: python, mysql
Slug: mysql-cli-kickstarter

I'm starting a project called [mysql-cli](http://mysql-cli.com).

[mysql-cli](http://mysql-cli.com) will be a command line client for MySQL, with
auto-completion and syntax highlighting. An equivalent of
[pgcli](http://pgcli.com) for MySQL database.

I'm raising funds for the project through [kickstarter](http://mysql-cli.com).
The goal is to compensate for the development time and resources (hosting,
testing infrastructure, etc) as well as motivate me to keep going.

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/124121398" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

When I launched pgcli earlier this year I had high hopes for it. I anticipated
that I might reach a hundred users and even a couple of contributions. I
announced it on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/amjithr/status/552491986255896576) and HackerNews
and it took about an hour to reach 100 stars. By the second day it was a top
trending repo in all of Github. Right now it is hovering near the 1600 mark for
the number of stars, with more than 70 pull requests (merged). 

During the first week of launch, I slept about 3 hours each night because the
pull requests and issues came flooding. I made a personal resolve to answer
every communique within 24 hours. This meant answering personal emails,
responding to issues filed, reviewing pull requests etc. I
[vowed](http://pgcli.com/about) to be polite and respectful to my users and
contributors and I've had nothing but pleasant interactions with them. 

My hope is to provide the same level of dedication and support to
[mysql-cli](http://mysql-cli.com). There is definitely a need for it, since
every time I use the default MySQL client I want to scream obscenities at my
computer and I can't be the only one. :)

The plan is to launch [mysql-cli](http://mysql-cli.com) in July 2015 and open
up the repo to public. If you want to get involved sooner, please back the
project on [kickstarter](http://mysql-cli.com) and I'll add you to the early access list. :)

