Install
#######

:slug: install

Compatibility:
--------------

This package is tested on Linux and OS X. I'm confident that it'll work in all
Unix variants. I have not personally tested this on Windows, but all the
underlying libraries used by this project are cross-platform compatible
including Windows. If you have a Windows machine, I'd very much appreciate if
you could test it out and let me know.

Quick start:
------------

If you already know how to install python packages, then you can simply do:
You might need ``sudo``. 

.. code:: bash

    $ pip install pgcli

    or 

    $ easy_install install pgcli

Detailed:
---------

For installing Python packages it is recommended to use the package manager
called ``pip``. There is also an older package manager known as
``easy_install`` but it is superseded by pip.

Check if ``pip`` is installed on the system.

.. code:: bash

    $ which pip

If the above command returns an error, then you do not have pip installed on
your computer. You can install pip for your OS using one of the following
methods.

Linux:
~~~~~~

Debian based systems (Debian, Ubuntu, Mint etc)

.. code:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get install python-pip

For Redhat based systems (Fedora, Centos, RHEL etc)

.. code:: bash

    $ sudo yum install python-pip

``pgcli`` uses ``psycopg`` to talk to postgres database. In order to install
psycopg, you will need you will need libpq installed on your system. You will
also need C compiler installed on your system in order to compile the required
files for psycopg.

.. code:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get install libpq-dev    # debian

    or 

    $ sudo yum install postgresql-devel   # redhat

Now that the required dependencies are satisfied you are ready to install ``pgcli``.

.. code:: bash

    $ sudo pip install pgcli

Mac OS X:
~~~~~~~~~

``pgcli`` uses ``psycopg`` to talk to postgres database. In order to install
psycopg, you will need you will need libpq installed on your system. The
easiest way to get the necessary libraries is to install postgres on your
system. 

.. code:: bash

    $ brew install postgresql

You will also need C compiler installed on your system in order to compile the
required files for psycopg. So you will need to install XCode and then install
the CommandLineTools which will install gcc or an equivalent C compiler on your
system. I typically do the following: 

.. code:: bash

   $ xcode-select --install     # This will install the command line tools for xcode.

Most OS X systems comes pre-installed with python and ``easy_install``. You can
use easy_install to install ``pip``.

.. code:: bash

    $ sudo easy_install install pip
    
    $ sudo pip install pgcli

If you're having trouble getting this installed please feel free to `contact
<{filename}/pages/6.about.rst>`_ me. 
